---
layout: post
type: episode
title: Wholesome Communication and Interaction
epnumber: 1
words: 3088
description: In their first podcast episode Steven and William discuss their motivations for asking the age-old question 'Who am I?' and how best to go about their quest of exploring possible paths to an answer.
image: /images/ep01poster.png
audio: Wholesome-communication-and-interaction-e5nsqq/a-apb1ta
video: w8Gc1lpY7uQ
categories: [art, media]
tags: [communication, games, writing, creativity]
comments: true
---

<p><b>Steven:</b> Why we think that having a chat together
is worth doing, actually recording
and sharing?
And that's again because we both like
to broaden our perspectives on different
subjects, and this is a good platform for
doing that.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> yeah I noticed that, well
when I had the idea for the podcast I
thought who could I do this
with, and you're the first and only name
that came to my mind. I have had good
chats with other people, obviously, but
not as consistently. And since we've made
an effort to keep in touch since we left
Scotland five or four years ago, we have managed
to keep in touch every few
months at least.
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> Well that's pretty
impressive when you think about it
actually.
</p>

<h2>Communication</h2>

<p><b>William:</b> The meat of our chats has not
become less. I feel
pretty well understood when I share my
thoughts with you.
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> Likewise.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> That's valuable I don't want to leave that.
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> Again there's no pressure, no
criticism, no judgment when we just
chat. Because 
often when people have
discussions it suddenly becomes "right
and wrong" or "my views are more
important"-type discussion.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> I especially don't
like the phrase "I disagree", because that
immediately separates us. When I
say that "oh I don't agree" it's like
your opinion doesn't matter.
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> That is
spot on actually. That is 
what was going for my mind over the last
few days about what I wanted to talk about, the fact that people seem to
think they can't absorb someone's
opinion on something. They feel very
strongly that they have to reject it
because it conflicts with their own. And
that's not how things in
my opinion work. Because
the more opinions you absorb, again, the
more you'll be able to able to understand others.
You don't have to believe them. You don't have to
agree with them. But you can absorb them
and adopt them into your own psyche or
soul or whatever you want to call it,
so that you understand it their point of
view in a way that is, again, loving and
not just a dismissal.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> I think most
people are capable of that.
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> Definitely.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> I'm sometimes offended when I hear other
people's opinions, and I might need to
retreat. But when I feel I'm in a safe
place and I can no longer be
attacked or put in an
uncomfortable conflict situation, then I
can process it and not feel threatened
that moment. Then I can be more
rational about it, which is not always
possible in the moment. And that
I'm confronted with something, you know,
especially when it's a heated discussion
which I don't like in general.
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> Again
there's no need for a heated discussion.
It just seems to be something
that happens, that someone suddenly
gets defensive about a topic.
And we forget that we can just pause
and go "okay let's stop, it's becoming heated.
Let's come back to this. We don't want it
to be heated." It's just unnatural, maybe
it's our natural defense mechanism
kicking in. And that people don't
necessarily have that
wall in their brains, haven't learned to... Again it takes
practice. You know I
often got into many a heated
discussion in the past because life is
an ongoing process, and not being able to
go "hang on a minute, take a step back"
because I think that's very
important in discussions. Just pause, like
"okay".
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> Yeah that's what real discussions
should be like. It's sad to see in the
media, say with political discussions.
The channels, the platform's just
love controversy and fighting.
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> And it's
all so quick, it's all so fast. You've got to 
answer things in two seconds. As I was
watching the Joe Rogan show / podcast 
they had Bernie Sanders on.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> I saw that.
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> So you saw that as well. It was an amazing discussion.
And he was discussing, he was
talking about, how you have these
debates that are just 
too fast.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> Yeah they call it a soundbite.
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> You
don't get time to actually discuss in
a nice way your policies.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> The nuances. There's no room for nuances.
And Bernie only had one hour time for
Joe Rogan, only. Joe can talk to people
for three hours like Jordan
Peterson. He loves talking to him. I think
he's had him on twice. 
That's the the number one podcast,
I heard.
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> Is it? Good.
Again, he brings in lots of different
perspectives. He doesn't judge, he
doesn't condone in that sense. He
just
hangs out with people.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> He has an
opinion on things: the things
he's passionate about. But he can just be
diplomatic and really interested in a
loving way, like you said. He's respectful,
he gets people on all kinds of
parts of the spectrum and... what were you
going to say?
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> Yeah he can listen.
He just sits there and every so
often he just throws in his little two
cents' worth.	
He's there to see what
his guests have to say. And the
listeners, he knows the listeners are
there for that as well.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> Someone is not,
people are not interested in your
opinion until they feel like you're
interested in theirs and they feel
understood and listened to. It's
something I read. I can't really say that
from experience a lot. I just try, I try
to be aware of other people's opinions
and just yeah, it's not easy to give them
your attention and understanding. It
certainly makes for better relationships.
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> Yes. Listening is a difficult skill.
I am rubbish at it. I am really bad.
I woffle.
I am quite happy to, again, discuss this as a topic
topic. I'll ask a
question or something, and that person
will have like 30 seconds, and then I'll be like
"oh they said something really
interesting" and I'll start going off on
one again. And I just like need to learn just
to be quiet.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> Is it an attention thing or do you just
love the sound of your own voice?
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> Probably. I'm just excited to just share
what's going on. Somebody else
will say something and I'll just be like
"oh!". Something will trigger in my brain that I
think is interesting
and therefore want to share because I'm
worried if I don't say it now it'll be
gone.
And then I will remember it or something
like that. That's probably what's going
on. Again, it's subconscious in a way.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> There are signals like when you take
a breath because you want to say
something. They will see that, at least
most people will be aware of tha. But if
they still talk then I think "I guess they
believe what they have to say is more
important". I think the best
conversations are when you're
willing to sacrifice what you want to
say, and then just adapt to what the
other person says. It's not
always easy
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> It's not. It's about asking
questions as well, isn't it. It's being
able to
know what questions to ask people when
just having discussions. But like things
like you know "what's your opinion?", "how do
you feel about this?". Those kind of things-
I also think a lot of my woffleness, if
that's even a word, comes from spending
a lot of time with quiet people.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> You're a waffle maker.
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> Yeah, I'm a
waffle maker, it's true. I like it. My
brain is a waffle maker.
</p>

<h2>Interactions</h2>

<p><b>William:</b> So you have to
spend time with who?
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> With lots of quiet people, people that tend
to be
not as outgoing as maybe the
popular group of people, like the masses.
And therefore, sometimes in the past, I
felt the need to be the one who chats
even though I'm quite happy to sit back
and, not in a social environment, if everyone
was just not talking and no one's saying
anything,
that feels very uncomfortable. It
feels like something's wrong, so it's not
right, where actually it's just enjoying each
other's presence. But there usually
has to be something, you're doing
something. If you're all together,
you know, you're watching a film or on
the computer or you're playing board
games, you know. You don't have to
necessarily talk to each other in that.
But if you're just sitting there
having drinks or whatever, then it can be
quite difficult to know
what to say and how to maintain
conversation.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> Sometimes it's just a
mental pause, just reflecting on what was
said.
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> I always love when someone comes in and it's
like they're the person that can sort of
like navigate the conversation, the
dynamic in the group. I can
just sit back, and I don't have to, but I
can sort of just bounce off that person.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> Yeah, it can be nice. It can also be that
they take over too much control and then
the whole dynamic gets ruined, where
everyone had a good share in the
conversation. When someone has a
personality that's too big for the rest
of the group.
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> I interrupted, carry on. Sorry.
Well, see, I'm doing exactly what I'm talking about.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> So shall we move on to another topic?
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> Well, the link in my brain was: an
example of that dominating conversation
in a group setting is Dungeons & Dragons of all things. So that's really popular
at the moment. It's made an
absolutely comeback in the last
four or five years.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> The pen and paper
version in person?
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> In person, online, again,
broadcasting it, twitch streaming it,
YouTube streaming it. If you go onto youtube
and type in D&D there are hundreds of
shows because it's very entertaining.
The social dynamic of that is that
you have one person guiding the story
scenario then you have four people plus
or maybe three, depending on the dynamic,
and in
social situation there's one person
that dominates the whole thing. It can be
a completely different different game to where
if it's even spread. You have the other
dynamic the dungeon master or games
master: it's their job to actually
negotiate that, to make sure that one
person isn't dominating things. So it brings in
a whole new social structure. And I know
people falling out in dungeons and dragons
and got upset because one person was
trying to control the situation to make
sure everyone, like the DM is trying to make
sure everyone's having the same amount
of fun, but the big personality... And
they're enjoying it, you know, they're
allowed to enjoy it. They're allowed to have
fun, be happy and whatever else. But it's
those social clues of being aware.
But other people can get involved.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> How
often do you play? Do you meet once a
week with your friends?
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> I play a
little bit at the moment with my brother Ben.
But I've just finished up a two-year
campaign. Yeah, I just finished a two-year
campaign,
weirdly with somewhere between 15 and
20 people.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> What? Online?
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> Well, so
originally there's about 13 of u sin our
games group who wants to play dungeons and
dragons. And I was like "yeah, let's see
what happens". I hadn't DM'd before. I hadn't
done it. But I thought "you know what, I
always go for the extremes, so I'll try
it". And it works reasonably well, but was
a difficult dynamic because, again, people
weren't getting enough time. I was
constantly jumping to different people a
lot. And then I split it off into more
people jumped in, more people came along.
Then I split it off into three groups of
five or six, and then a group of one
because the story had one sort of
"bad person"
which was my brother as his character.
And then the other groups were on the
quest to try and stop him
all in the same sort of timeline but
different countries. So that was a social
dynamic, nightmare, but lots of fun.
In hindsight I'll never do it again.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> And that took two years, to go through the whole
story and the whole adventure?
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> Yeah, I
mean some adventures never
stop. So D&D is a weird one where
you can have the campaign last a
year. They can last ten years depending
on the group of people, depending on the
story. Most pre-made things from Wizards
of the coast who make D&D, I think, a year
maybe. If you do it every eight week or two.
It might last, the
curse of Stroud, that's quite a long one.
I think.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> So does that mean the Dungeon
Master have to keep building the world?
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> Yes, if it's their own world, yes. If it's
the pre-made one they have a general
sense of how the world is.
And they kind of just use the resources
that you've got given, you've been given
for that. But yeah, going back to the point: the social
dynamic of that is fascinating; trying
to listen, again, listen to people, let
them have their time.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> Nice. I've
been studying a bit about gamification,
and how central games are to learning,
and how hopefully the education system,
you know schools for children, will adapt.
And now it is that being told to shut up,
sit down and listen is not productive.
There's nothing wrong with you
if you can't sit still and listen for
hours to something that is not exciting
for you. How you can actually use
games, simple games, complex games, board
games, video games to convey all the
things you need in traditional schooling.
So I'm excited about becoming aware of
that and I wonder what things you learn,
because games aren't interesting unless
you learn. I think you were saying
that the social dynamics are
interesting, but what else have you
learned just from games like D&D?
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> There's a lot of studies going on.
I'm assuming studies and discussion
going on about how this helps especially
in D&D
and role-playing games, because it gives
you a way to, again, learn social
situations that are technically
fictional and there's no consequence
really to it. So you can help develop
your social skills in that manner. A lot
of teenagers right now are really
getting onto it, especially in America.
D&D clubs, groups like stranger
things has really blown that up as well
because the TV show stranger things is
basically based on D&D stuff and has
really blown up that ability to learn
through a story. You know,
if you're acting a story not just reading a
story, you know, people love to see a
theater or read it or see it on TV or
the cinema; this gives you a very
immersive experience where you can learn
anything like you can
learn the social skill, you can learn how
you feel about good and evil, or how you
would feel in a bar brawl. It can
get really emotional because you're attached to your
character, you're playing a character.
And if your couch gets injured or your
party members get injured you go through
emotional learning through those
experiences. And it is just brilliant.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> It's like a flight simulator,
right? There's no risk of,
say, physical harm. But you get the
real experience.
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> Yeah, and again, if the DM is
doing it right and you're doing it
right as a group there's no risk
for social or psychological or
emotional damage because you're with
friends, you're in a comfortable
situation. And there should be no
judgement and just having fun. You can be
as silly as you want. You can just
let loose. You don't have to hide. You can
look for aspects of your own personality
through another character if you want to,
without realizing. Other people do
because they're not out and about "I'm
gonna feel judged". They'll just say, you
know, "it's the character", but actually
they might be actually just exploring
part of themselves. And then D&D also
has the element where it's just fun and you
can just kill everything and that
tends to be what happens to start off
with, where you get a party come in and
you put a scenario in front of them and
instead of negotiating or being
diplomatic it's just, because it's a
fictional world, "we draw our bows
and our swords and we go and kill."
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> In D&D you say a lot what you do, right?
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> Yes
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> But when you're with the group of
friends in person or I guess you
say "I do this", which is not normal speech.
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> No
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> That's interesting.
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> You have the third person as well you
can say the person's name, your
character's name. You say "Sam does that",
"Sam is upset", "Sam cries", "Sam whatever" if
that's a character's name.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> You could turn that into
a book if you record what everyone says, especially when it's in the third person.
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> Again, the podcasts; you
just follow someone's game.
If you type it into YouTube, if you type it
into twitch... I got into the audio stuff
about five or six years ago, maybe
a bit more, and
there's so many, just fun games, and
you're just listening to them play. They
just listen to them play. The main
one that I listen to is acquisitions
incorporated, they're the Wizards of the
coast guys that make it, their own
official D&D team, I guess. They have
other ones as well but this one
started off as just a little podcast. Two of the
players I don't think had even
played D&D before. It's been going for ten years.
And then they got to the point after a
few years, where they did it at
conventions on stage in front of
people.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> In costume?
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> Yes,
sometimes in costume. Wil Wheaton was
involved in a few of them.
And yeah, it's just it's so much fun and
entertaining, and, again, you learn like
you do for any fictional medium, really.
The whole catharsis thing.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> I don't like
it when when people say "Well, what does
that have to do with the real world? That
doesn't prepare you for anything really
important." But, I mean, reality is what you
make of it, first of all. And a game
or a movie for that matter, no matter how
fictional it is, it's only interesting as
long as it has some relation
with the real world. If it were totally
disconnected and totally abstract it
would not be interesting, you wouldn't
know what's going on and how is this a
story. So there's always some parallel,
and some stories are more distant
from the world we know than others;
but that's just his work.
</p>

<h2>Creativity and Writing</h2>

<p><b>Steven:</b> Yeah, that's a
perfect segue that will probably be part
of every podcast: the fact that I'll
mention Dune at least once in
everything, which is that the segue is
that that's why a lot of people struggle
with Dune, because it's so different and
so outside of what we understand, or
think we understand, in its environment
in its universe. But once you start
scratching the surface you start to see
the commonalities of the human
experience. That's why a lot of people
read the first few chapters and
just put it down because it's like "What the hell?"
There's so many different words used and
actions.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> It's not just names, it's
actually vocabulary.
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> The political
structure, the vocabulary, yeah.
And again it loops back
into the fact that most stories,
they do have a, the good ones, the great
ones, have the common
human experiences within them.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> Even though people have special
abilities it's not too foreign
because, well, we would all like to have
some special abilities. But
you can still use some of your
imagination to see what it's like to
read people's thoughts or fly or
whatever.
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> Again, it's the emotional
experience, isn't it.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> Yeah, you
call it catharsis, right? I read once
in some, maybe on your homepage,
where you say that catharsis is one of the
reasons you like fantasy media in
general. And that's similar to the gaming
experience we were just talking about:
it's virtual but it's also real.
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> That loops back to what we said at the start, to do
with (oh man I just went a memory
just lost it)... That's really
annoying. I had it. I had a really good...
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> Okay, another question. Maybe you'll
get back to it. As an author of
fantasy, do you have a certain goal
for your readers?
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> Never. 
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> Is there something
rewarding for you if they manage to do
something interesting by reading
your books?
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> I never really
have the readers in mind. It sounds very
selfish. But it's my experience:
writing the story has always
just been "what would I like to read?"
If ideas come into my brain
I just write them in a way that if
someone else had written the story I
would pick it up and just be absorbed
into it. And I just hope that, you know,
other people enjoy them too kind of
thing. That's always kind of been my... 
Weirdly, in the past I've been a very
overthinking human being. And I still am
in many ways. But when it comes to stuff
like that I just do it. I just write it
out and take the concepts and roll with
them. It sounds really pretentious
and annoying; but the story tends
to kind of just write itself.
I've been very fortunate with that where
they just flow.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> Stream of consciousness.
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> Yes. There's a
lot of editing involved. Don't get me wrong.
There's a lot of corrections need to be
made afterwards. There's a lot of
that, but they solved the initial
outline. I don't necessarily think about
who's going to read this or how they're
going to respond. And again, maybe I should.
Maybe I should be more conscious of that.
There's been stuff that's happened with
certain stories.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> I mean, don't let it
ruin your recipe. You know, if something's
working for you.
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> It feels like it is. It
feels like it is. It's a slow industry, so
current prices are just waiting for a
revamp of all my work pretty much. So,
until that happens I'm pretty much just
working on projects and not really doing
anything in terms of promoting and
marketing.
But the reading
experience and the catharsis, it tends to... I think I try to write them... When
I write, I think a way that
people can interpret it however they
want.
So it's ambiguous and open enough that a
lot of what goes on, you can
pick and choose how you respond to it,
for your own perspective. Often a
story it could be like "Okay, this is how
it is. This is what's going to happen.
This is what's good. This is what's bad.
blah blah". I think a lot of what I write
I think will bite, will polarize people.
People will read it and be like "Okay.
That's cool, blah blah, because they've
seen it as that way". Or other people would be
really offended or be like "This is
rubbish because that's what they've
projected onto it", that they've chosen to
see that side of the story
rather than the whole.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> You write
offensive things?
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> Not offensive in that like the
interpretation... So we talked
about the Frankenstein story earlier. In
the Daria V Frankenstein I deal with
equality and gender roles and those kind
of topics. And again, I'll bit get it now because it's
not time for that discussion. Maybe in the future. But it caused a bit
of difficulty between the editors and
myself, the publisher, to try and get it
to where it needed to be.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> Did you have to
push for it, to happen the way you
wanted?
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> Yeah, and I also had to be humble
enough to accept that I was wrong at
various points and make sure that I was
keeping my mind open, again, to how
readers will respond to things; just
because I think that the interpretation
should be one way, or I see an
interpretation that I hope other people
will see. This isn't gonna
necessarily mean they do see it. So I
have to actually learn to be a
bit more specific in the plot and think
about
who's this after being
written for and who's going to read this
and actually you think about that more,
because in the past, as I say, I haven't.
So actually consciously thinking about
it
will make sure there are no obvious
contradictions. Because
if you're trying to do a theme, and then
you end up without realizing it
contradicting it through characters or
through the experiences, then it can
look very bad as a writer and you can look like an
idiot.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> And people love to point that out.
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> Yes, they do.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> Maybe you could do something
on social media to get more feedback on
what your readers think about your
stories. I mean, if you want to go that
way. Again, don't do anything to to kill
the thing that works
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> As I
say, this is part of a
discussion, another sort of half an
hour worth of waffling on my part just
to, I guess, discuss that story and what
happened in that story and how in terms
of how it led to me, how many discussions
with the editors about the content, and
if you're trying to cover a certain
theme. So I think that, yeah, for another
time, definitely. How about you? What are
your mediums for social creative outputs? You do
coding and stuff
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> Yeah. Well I haven't been
creative in a while. But when I do have
some leftover energy I like some
programming. I, let's see, about a year ago
I was trying to gather all the exercises
I did as a student of computer science
and it was difficult to find all the
code left over in Dropbox folders, emails.
And some of the software had moved on, so
that it was no longer compatible.
But then I thought "No. I it's fine for
that to be in the past." I recovered
some of it, and that was interesting. It made
me a bit nostalgic for the days of
studying. I wish I could be a student my
whole life. So no, up till now I
haven't felt the need to produce much. But
now I'm starting a new phase. This is a big
step for me, to do a podcast. So far I've
just been soaking up everything. Some
people like to call me a sponge because
I just love to learn all kinds of things.
And so that's been reading, and also the
last few years YouTube. Since I realized
"Wow, there's a lot more information out
there than what television offers you".
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> Oh, yeah.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> Diverse and more tailored towards
what I think personally is valuable. So
three years ago I developed an
interest in politics, and that was never
there before. So now, I guess you could
say, my output is, or I have a need now
to talk to people about politics.
There's not a lot of opportunity for
that, I mean, with people who are open
even though they have a different
perspectives than I do. Bt whenever I
can, I mention it and and see what
happens, what response I get. For example
on Friday I asked my colleagues "Did any
of you do anything or think about
anything because it was September 11th
two days ago?", and they said "Not really, just that it was on the news a bit."
And I said "Yeah, well, on the alternative
news channels that I watched there was
quite a lot about it, but not in the
sense of let's have a moment of
silence, but let's go through all
the evidence again that shows that the
attacks in in Manhattan were not just a
few people from a cave in in the Middle
East but..."
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> There's a lot of
discussion around that.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> Yeah, and
should never stop because it's still
buried and suppressed; and not enough
people know the truth about what
actually happened.
Just how many institutions and
governments were involved in it. Anyway...
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> Well a good idea would be to next
discussion politics and then a bit of my book
stuff, in terms of themes, and how they
relate to, I guess, how as a creator you write, you create things for
yourself and for your audience.
But we can discuss some political
stuff together. We can discuss, you
can if you want to.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> Sure. Yeah.
I described the topic, the
main topic of the whole podcast on the
homepage as "we're discussing questions
around personal identity", because that
that's what the question "Who am I?" is
about. Not like "Who the heck am I?!",
but rather, of all the things that people
tell themselves about their identity,
what applies to me? How do I feel
about what I am, who I am, in relation to
the world, other people, the environment.
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> The Greeks had it good,
with all their philosophy. It
was above the temple at Delphi in, I don't know,
600 BC or whatever, where the phrase "Know thyself" comes from.
This constant desire to know thyself,
to know who we are. Who am I?
The other phrase was "Everything in moderation". Something along those
lines.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> Also by the Greeks, you mean?
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> Yeah. So it was at the temple of Delphi. And it
was written above it: those two phrases
"Know thyself". And the translation, I think,
is something on the lines of 
"Everything in moderation" or "Nothing in
excess". That sort of phrase. The "Know thyself" is one of my favorite
things ever. Because all we do
as humans, we just constantly try to understand who we are.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> That's right, in many different ways: You're the artist. I guess you
express, right? Would you say
you express along your quest for
knowledge about yourself? Yeah, I
like that your goal is not to entertain
people or to make money or to tell
people what they should be. It's
just a thing you do for you.
And if it can help you support
yourself financially, then that's great.
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> That'll be nice. Again, it's exploring. Like the podcast, the plan of
the podcast is to explore just many
different topics. That's what I do with
my writing. One set of
books is more philosophical and draws on
religion in this fantasy setting. And
then one set is like steampunk mixed
with again the "Who am I" and the equality
concept and the different perspectives
around equality. And another one was just
solely, I think just gonna end up,
being all fantasy and not actually
thinking too much about concepts, and
just literally just be a crazy adventure
story. So again, it's made different ways
of like a podcast or like a story. All are. All are.
It's the same, really. I guess a
shoebox. But that's a discussion for
another time.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> I'm not so much the
artist, but pieces of media that have
influenced me a lot, and not made me what
I am, but have resonated with me... I've
also had to deal with the question "Who am
I?". And that's
the
Matrix movies.
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> Yes!
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> Especially the first one.
I remember how that really got to me.
And science fiction in general.
That's my favorite genre, because it
shows that there is value in in thinking
about questions that we don't ask
ourselves every day. When we go shopping
or working we just live, we just survive.
But I think for life to be more
valuable, you should explore more, deeper.
And that's that's not always easy when
there's no time or energy left for it.
But in movies, since they're
entertaining and a good source of
education as well...
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> It has to be fun, like
you talked about earlier, where it's
the play thing and we
learn through playing games and stuff. It
has to... People, you know, switch off or
get bored if a
discussion is too in depth or too
detailed. But if you can weave that into
fun things for them, again, everyone has
their own kind of fun. Because my
fun sometimes IS having a massive
theological discussion that lasts hours.
And then other times I just want to play
a board game or D&D which can explore
something else or whatever. I don't know
what's gonna be explored. It is always
trying to be conscious of everyone
else's different fun, I guess. And
meaning of life, that kind of
concept. Because some people do just
want to drift through life. They don't
actually want to explore other things. And
who are we to tell them they
have to? But I think there a
lot of people out there who want to.
That's a key thing as well,
is that they want to discuss these
things but, again, it's not always... They
can't find the right people to discuss
them with.
</p>

<p><b>William:</b> Right. Yeah. We're very
isolated, and we don't realize how much
we have in common. And we're not alone at
all. But it takes some risk
to speak to someone and just open up about things
that can be very private, can be hurtful
to share. But it could be very
rewarding if it works out, so.
</p>

<p><b>Steven:</b> The honesty behind it, it's hard. The trust,
trust and honesty. That's what we have. I think that's
pretty much what we have. We have a trust
and an honesty, where we can just discuss
things, life and fun things, and things
that we enjoy.
</p>